[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm William Henry and
this is "Ascension Keepers."
The Essenes community was
an intersection or portal
between heaven and Earth with
celestial or heavenly beings
living amongst them
as instructors.
Their goal was to
transform Earth
into a planet of righteousness.
One gets the impression that
the Essenes perceived Earth
as disconnected from
the cosmic real world.
And their goal was
to put humanity back
on line, so to speak.
To the Essenes, the real
world we are seeking
included joining a
celestial city called Sion,
or the New Jerusalem.
It was conceived as an
actual city constructed
in heaven that will be revealed,
or disclosed, when it comes out
of heaven to Earth.
The Essenes tell
us it's inhabited
by an advanced human race
of just humans made perfect.
And they tell us how
we can join them.
For one thing, only
the pure in heart
can enter and dwell in Sion.
The Essenes believed
that in order
to enter this heavenly
city, one is required
to become like the
angels, who dress lightly
in a white robe of glory.
This robe symbolizes their
ascension, or conversion,
into an energy
pattern and attainment
of the celestial
light body that was
capable of being reconverted,
or re-materialized, into matter
into flesh and blood.
This gave them the
ability to phase
between the two states of being,
between earthly and celestial.
Obtaining this robe of
glory, or robe of light,
required a transformation
or perfection
of our being from earthly
flesh to celestial flesh,
of which the Essenes
claim to be experts.
Here, we recall the
words of Matthew,
who said that at the
moment of Jesus's death,
his flesh and the
veil were both torn,
and the way was opened
into the heavens,
into the presence of God.
In flesh, Jesus is veiled.
And when he unveils,
he dissolves the flesh
into the rainbow body.
And in a flash, he
dematerializes, or passes,
through the hole in heaven
to the world beyond the veil.
Then he re-materializes at will,
appearing over a dozen times
to the disciples in
the New Testament.
The Essenes believed
that they were not
only privileged to receive
these divine mysteries,
but that doing so would put
them in the company of angels
in the celestial city.
This belief is referred to
in the scroll known as 1QM.
"Oh, God of Israel, who is like
thee in heaven or on Earth, who
accomplished deeds
and mighty works
like thine, who is like thy
people Israel, which thou hast
chose for thyself from all
the peoples of the lands,
the people of the saints of the
covenant instructed in the laws
and learned in wisdom, who
have heard the voice of majesty
and have seen the
angels of holiness,
whose ear has been
unstopped and who
have heard profound things."
Instructed in the laws and
learned and wisdom, who
have heard the voice
of majesty, and have
seen the angels of holiness.
In today's UFO vernacular,
that is a close encounter
of the third kind.
They saw an other worldly being.
Another passage in
the Dead Sea Scrolls
indicates the further
belief that the Essenes were
in the company of these angels,
or extraterrestrial beings.
"Thou hast raised me up
to the everlasting height.
I walk on limitless
level ground,
and I know there is
hope for him whom
thou hast shaped from the dust
for the everlasting council.
thou hast cleansed a
perversed spirit of great sin
that it may stand with
the host of the holy ones
and that it may enter into the
community with the congregation
of the sons of heaven."
In my opinion, this
is a description
of a close encounter
of the fourth kind,
a CE4, an event in which a
human is taken or abducted
by an alien.
In this case, it's not
a malevolent abduction.
It's a benevolent one.
They have been raised up to
the everlasting height, taken
from Earth into heaven.
This is also a close encounter
of the fifth kind, a CE5,
which involves
direct communication
between extraterrestrials
and humans.
This type of interaction,
according to Doctor Steven
Greer, is a willing
and bilateral contact,
experienced through conscious,
voluntary, and proactive
human-initiated
cooperative communication
and extraterrestrial
intelligence.
Having been altered,
cleansed, taken
into the celestial
realms, the Essenes
now stand with the
holy ones, the angels.
They have become one of them.
They star walk into
the angelic realm.
This is a close encounter of
the eighth and ninth kind, a CE8
or a CE9.
These passages show that
the Essenes believed, one,
that they possessed
the secrets of God.
They learned wisdom.
They heard the voice of majesty.
They saw and
interacted with angels,
extraterrestrial beings.
They could be raised
or translated to heaven
and purified, so that they
could join the holy ones
and enter into their
company as sons of heaven
in Sion, the celestial city.
In fact, the purpose
of the Essene community
was to purify members
in anticipation
of joining the company of
angels in the celestial city.
So what do we know or need to
know about this celestial city?
For instance, is this
celestial city a craft?
Are the Essenes
talking about something
like what we saw in "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind."
"Close Encounters" was
a 1977 sci-fi flick
that explicitly mined
traditional religious themes,
especially those of the Essenes.
In the movie, everyman,
Richard Dreyfus,
experiences a dramatic
experience on a road,
like Paul on his way to
Damascus or to Qumran.
He becomes obsessed with
the pursuit of some truth
that he doesn't
fully understand.
He ends up abandoning and
being abandoned by his family
and goes on a cross-country
journey with another believer
to seek some sort of
unknown fulfillment.
When he arrives, he sees
the light, a saucer.
When the saucer
lands, he boards it.
The saucer departs and Dreyfus
is assumed, or ascends,
into heaven.
Are the angels of the
Lord of the Essenes
really gray aliens as
Spielberg envisions?
Or the elder race they spoke
of, a more advanced ET race?
Is the new Jerusalem a massive
interstellar spaceship?
When viewed from the bottom, the
spaceship in "Close Encounters"
seems to mirror the descent of
some kind of a celestial city.
But in Christian art, it's
referred to as a portal.
The new Jerusalem
itself is a portal.
And this certainly, to
me, makes more sense
than does a spaceship.
If the new Jerusalem
is a portal,
does it exist in
the material world?
Or does it only exist in the
realm of higher consciousness?
Is it accessible only by
the mystically initiated,
the awakened?
We must ask these
questions early and often.
And for the answers, we can
begin where the Essenes did--
with Ezekiel.
A priest and prophet,
Ezekiel is one
of the contenders for the title
of founder of the Essenes.
He wrote his visionary
book containing
his vision of the celestial
city while captive
along with thousands
of other Jews
taken from Jerusalem to
Babylon between 593 and 571
BC after Nebuchadnezzar
destroyed
the first temple of Solomon.
Ezekiel tells how he was
among the captives living
by the River Chebar in Babylon
when the heavens were opened
and I saw visions of God.
In the book, Ezekiel tries
to convey the limitless realm
he experiences via
this hole in space
to the limited terrestrial mind.
The book of Ezekiel tells
of the reunification
of the 12 Jewish tribes
around a manifestation
of a new Jerusalem, a perfect
cubed shaped heavenly temple
or city, apparently
centered on or hovering
above a rebuilt
temple of Solomon.
Ascension to this celestial
throne, the heavenly Jerusalem,
is the goal of the Essenes.
And as their scrolls say, it
requires a change in being.
Angelification or human
transformation into an angel,
like what the archangel
Michael did for Enoch,
is one term academics use
for this metamorphosis
or transformation.
This metamorphosis is featured
in the Essene story of Enoch,
the pre-flood sage who
walked with God, when
he was raised to the heavenly
city by the archangel Michael
and transformed into a glorious
and glowing angel, named
Metatron.
As Metatron, he became
a guide for all humans
on the path of ascension.
These are the teachings
that were ripped away
from the Israelites
by King Josiah
and replaced with
the Ten Commandments.
The Essenes were not content
to repeat the 10 commandments,
which they lived by, nor
mere stories of past prophets
or the history of
the people of Israel.
Instead, as we have seen,
their texts were practices,
they were visualizations,
rehearsals
that put them in the vibration,
or frequency, of the angels
and elevated them
to their company.
The experiences of
Ezekiel and Enoch
effectively became scripts,
or mind maps, for the steps
an initiate would take along
the ascension pathway to heaven,
or to the Celestial City.
These scripts were part of
what is called the Hekhalot,
or Merkabah mysteries.
These were developed
by the Essenes
and aimed at attaining
perfection, meaning wholeness,
holiness, completion,
or compassion.
The term Hekhalot refers to
the seven steps in the journey
to the Celestial City.
And as they ascended
the path of perfection
they proceeded to the divine
throne in the Celestial City.
Along the way, the eyes of
their heart were opened.
The term Merkabah,
or thrown chariot,
represents a vehicle that is
separated into seven chambers,
according to the teaching.
It ultimately refers to the
chariot, or throne, that God is
sitting on in Ezekiel's vision.
For this reason,
Merkabah's mysticism
is called throne
chariot mysticism.
And those who sought to
duplicate Ezekiel's experience
were called Descenders
of the Chariot.
This is the chariot throne that
we see Jesus ascending upon
in Christian art.
It is a lost fact
among modern Christians
that Jesus was a Merkabah
mystic, even that he
was connected with the Essenes,
and that the cloud he ascended
upon is the Merkabah
throne chariot that
takes us to the new Jerusalem.
Prophecies of Jesus's
return tell us
he will ride upon this
very same cloud chariot.
John the Revelator's
Book of Revelation,
which tells of this return,
was written a generation
after the Essenes.
It can be thought of as not
only inspired by the Essenes,
but as a continuation
of Ezekiel's vision
and clearly reflects Essene
beliefs and teachings
about ascension to
the new Jerusalem.
In the Book of Revelation, John
espouses Essene belief when
he says, "Blessed are those who
wash their robes so that they
will have the right
to the tree of life
and may enter the
New Jerusalem."
Writing from the Isle
of Patmos in Greece,
John prophesied that
the Celestial City seen
by Ezekiel and the Essenes
descends, or comes down, out
of heaven and becomes the
capital of the kingdom of life,
the meeting place of
the 12 tribes of Israel
and the gathering place
where righteous and perfected
humans meet.
Some believe this will
happen in the near future.
For example, in Hans Memling's
St. John the Evangelist
on Patmos, we see
John the Revelator
in the midst of this visionary
experience that put him
in the presence of Christ.
Over the rainbow bridge,
a bridge of consciousness,
is the glorified Jesus
on his rainbow throne
in his rainbow body in Sion.
What I noticed is
that this scene
has exactly the same
meaning as the Tibetan image
of the fourth Dalai Lama
seeing the rainbow body
being, Avalokiteeshvara.
Revelation, Chapter 4,
provides John's description
of this rainbow
doorway, this star gate.
"After this I looked and behold,
a door was opened in heaven.
And the first
voice which I heard
was as it were of
a trumpet talking
with me, which
said come up hither
and these things which
must be hereafter."
According to the vision
given to John the Revelator,
the New Jerusalem is an
actual, enormous, 12-gated city
that comes out of heaven.
The resurrected Jesus
sits on the throne.
And it is he who
gives John his vision.
And he has a rainbow
around his body.
John said, "Then I saw a
new heaven and a new Earth,
for the first heaven and
Earth had passed away
and the sea was no more.
I saw the Holy City,
the New Jerusalem,
coming down out of
heaven from God,
prepared as a bride
adorned for her."
John tells us the New
Jerusalem is made of pure gold,
like clear glass.
And its brilliance is
like a very costly stone,
as a stone of
crystal clear jasper.
Its streets have no names
and are made of pure gold.
It's like the Garden
of Eden with a river
flowing the waters of life
from the throne of God,
and the tree of
life at its center
has leaves for the healing
of all the nations.
In another part of
the temple, John
saw the Ark of the
Covenant, which
had been lost for centuries.
And he also saw the Jar of
Manna, Aaron's rod that butted,
and the Jar of Anointing Oil.
All these items were lost
after the purge of Josiah,
but would return when
the Messiah restored
the temple, the New Jerusalem.
From the author of another
text based on Essene teaching,
we learn the New Jerusalem is
inhabited by a race of divine,
righteous, or perfected humans,
who bear the name of God
on their foreheads and who have
ascended to the Celestial City.
The book of Hebrews says Sion
is the holy city of the living
God, the heavenly Jerusalem,
and our arrival there marks
our acceptance into an
innumerable company of angels
and just humans made perfect.
Who are these just
humans made perfect?
A group of humans,
we are being told,
have ascended to this holy
city and now live there.
What we want to know is,
again, who are these people?
And how did they get there?
In my view, they are
the ascended Essenes who
followed the way of perfection.
In fact, when we
look at the meaning
of the words used to describe
them, it tells us just this.
The word just means upright,
righteous-ed, balanced.
Humans means a member
of the species Homo
sapiens, not animal,
divine, or machine.
Made means shaped or formed.
And perfect means complete,
fully developed, whole,
or holy.
Clearly, we are
being told Sion is
a spiritual place beyond
the physical realm that's
inhabited by a separate race
of just humans made perfect.
Also, Sion godly inhabitants
are transformed or ascended
humans, who live in the company
of angels in the heavenly city.
The good people of Sion,
or the New Jerusalem,
are holy other worldly beings.
We should not be surprised
to learn that scholars now
see the book of Hebrews as an
Essene influenced text, another
of these mind maps, if you
will, ascension scripts,
ascension simulation scripts.
The book of Hebrews
explores the theme of Jesus
as the high priest,
a celestial traveler,
who came to Earth to
demonstrate a cosmic power
and to take his brothers and
sisters through a portal,
or stargate, to heaven and
to join a family of holy ones
in the Celestial City.
And when we begin to view
the ascension story of Jesus
from the Essene
perspective, we can see
many elements coming together.
Let's begin on the morning
of Christ's resurrection,
Easter morning.
We begin here because
we are viewing
Christ as the fulfillment
of the Essenes' mission
to call in a high
celestial being, who
is the exemplar of the mysteries
this teacher brought to Earth.
According to the
Gospel of Matthew,
on the morning of the
resurrection, Mary Magdalene
and the other Marys,
temple priestesses,
Essene initiates
went to see the tomb.
Suddenly, there was
a great earthquake
for an angel of
the Lord descended
from heaven rolled away
the stone and sat on it.
His appearance was
like lightning.
And his clothing white as snow.
This angel of the Lord, who
must have come from Sion,
told Mary that her beloved
was no longer here.
But shortly he reappeared
to Mary Magdalene.
Jesus refers to his impending
ascension in the Gospel of John
when he tells Mary Magdalene
stop holding onto me,
for I have not yet
ascended to the Father.
But go to my brothers
and say to them,
I am ascending to my
father and your father,
to my God and your God.
In fact, Jesus made
multiple appearances
in several locations
to his disciples
for 40 days following
his resurrection.
These visits continued
long after, as we will see.
His primary goal was to
transmit to them a sacred power.
He promised that when I go
and prepare a place for you,
I will come again and
will take you to myself
that where I am going
you may be also.
Think about what this is saying.
Jesus can manifest
as a light being
and take us to another
realm with him.
The ascension of Jesus
occurred at Bethany
on the Mount of Olives.
Several disciples were gathered.
This illumination
from a 6th century
Syrian manuscript,
the Rabbula Gospels,
shows the ascension of Jesus
upon a feathered throne
chariot, exactly like
the one Ezekiel saw.
Art historians note a great many
Western ascension images adapt
the pattern seen in this image.
This became a common way
of portraying ascension.
As the disciples
were looking on,
Jesus was lifted
up in a cloud that
resembles a portal or gateway
took him out of their sight.
And while the disciples were
gazing into heaven as he went,
behold, two men stood
by them in white robes
and said, "Men of
Galilee, why do you
look standing into heaven?
This Jesus who is taken
up from you into heaven
will come in the same way as
you saw him go into heaven."
This means that
Jesus comes and goes
through what we
would today interpret
as a portal, or a gateway.
Now, the Essenes were known
for their white linen garments.
So we have to ask,
were these the two men
that were present in
the tomb on Easter?
Were these the two
angels or men in white
that were present
for the ascension?
Were these Essenes?
In very clear and
direct language,
we are being told that on
Easter morning, a being whose
body resembled lightning--
in other words, a plasma being--
manifested on Earth from
a celestial location.
During this event, Jesus
transmuted his body
to match theirs and
then ascended to heaven,
or a place called Sion,
and promised to return.
Then he ascended.
So what was that cloud
Christ ascended upon?
Well, it's the Merkabah.
It's the Merkabah
throne chariot.
Or for sure, the
art of ascension
is clearly based on
the Merkabah imagery
of Ezekiel and the
other Merkabah mystics,
including the Essenes.
But where did Jesus says
go once he ascended?
The answer is he ascended to
a celestial throne, the New
Jerusalem, or Sion.
Christian art
features this imagery
in which the ascended Christ is
surrounded by just humans who
have been made
perfect and now live
at this throne in
the Celestial City.
I propose they're Essenes.
One can only imagine
what is really
going on in Jerusalem
during the Essene disclosure
and afterwards.
But one thing is certain,
Rome was having none of it.
In the spring of 66 AD,
the Jews of Jerusalem
revolted against
the Roman Empire.
The Essenes joined
them, seeing the revolt
as the final end time
battle and a chance
to reveal the Celestial
City to the world.
In retaliation for the revolt,
the tyrannical Roman emperor
Nero dispatched Vespasian
and a massive relief
army of 60,000 highly
trained soldiers
marched into Jerusalem to
crush the Jewish resistance.
The general appointed his son
Titus as his second in command.
Vespasian, the future
emperor of Rome,
led the Roman war machine
to the center of the Earth,
as Jerusalem was known,
on a two-fold mission.
First, exterminate the
Jews, including the Essenes.
All of the Essene
communes, or outposts,
spread throughout
Palestine, including Qumran,
Mount Carmel, Masada, were
targeted for destruction
by the empire.
Why?
Because of what Jesus
had demonstrated.
Second, his mission was to
destroy the Temple of Solomon.
And when Vespasian entered
the center of the Earth,
he must have been
anticipating high strangeness.
Several historians
noted that in 66 AD,
Jerusalem was filled with
bizarre lights and occurrences.
The Temple of Solomon
itself was also
displaying some kind
of unusual light show.
Strange, loud voices
could be heard
coming from its inner altar.
The Jewish historian Josephus
says that during the night.
so great a light shown around
the altar and the Holy House,
that it appeared to
be bright daytime.
Not only that, but
Josephus recorded that
before sun setting, chariots
and troops of soldiers
and their armor were seen
running about among the clouds
and surrounding of cities.
Another Roman
historian, Tacitus,
commented that "in the sky
appeared a vision of armies
in conflict of glittering armor.
A sudden lightning flash from
the clouds lit up the Temple."
More, a star that
resembled a sword was
seen in the sky along with a
comet that lasted for a year.
Strangely, Jesus
had warned about all
of these signs saying,
"And great earthquake
shall be in diverse
places and famines
and pestilences and fearful
sights and great signs
shall there be from heaven."
Nero unleashed Vespasian
and the Roman army
to put a stop to all this
supernatural nonsense and all
this Essene talk about
the Celestial City
and an empire greater than
Rome once and for all.
After destroying Jericho the
day before on June 21, 68 AD,
5,000 Roman soldiers
converged on Qumran.
The Essene know what's coming.
And in preparation for the Roman
attack, they flee Jerusalem.
A scroll preservation
team, or teams,
hastily gathers their sacred
manuscripts and scrolls
from libraries throughout
Jerusalem, wrap them in linen,
tuck them in hundreds of
heavy clay pottery jars,
and bravely climb at the nearby
rugged and sheer mountains.
They stash their scrolls,
their precious manuscripts,
that told of their
interactions with the angels.
And there, those scrolls
remained until their discovery
in 1947.
We have just explored
an incredible story
of a celestial city
that is inhabited
of benevolent beings coming
to Earth to assist humanity
in our transformation
into a celestial race,
to bring us back onto the
main timeline, if you will,
back into the real world.
And as the Essene
describe, they were
met by what they called
the children of darkness,
a force on this planet
that does not want to see
us ascend into the heavens.
But the possibility is
there for you and me
to become one of these just, or
righteous, humans made perfect,
made more whole, more
holy, more compassionate.
We can only imagine
that today could
be the time that the Essenes
were describing when they said
and knew that their
mission, while it began
at the time of Jesus,
would see its fulfillment
in a later time.
As their scrolls were
revealed in 1947,
and we're just now the
second and third generation
to be able to have access to
these scrolls, seems to me
that they have sent out a call
to us to answer this call,
to transform our world, to lift
the vibration of our planet,
to go beyond the veil of
our ordinary consciousness
and begin to interact
with and perhaps even
live with this advanced race
of celestial beings, the angels
that the Essenes had
called in long ago.